# CSE572_DM
Data Mining Projects

In this Assignment, you are required to build models for (a) regression and (b) classification
Task 1)	

Regression

Datasets “PB1_train.csv” and “PB1_test.csv” have three columns- first two columns are the features (x=[x1,x2]) and the last column is the prediction value (y). The hypotheses formula is given as:

y = ?0 + ?1x1 + ?2x2

Train a linear regression model, M, over x and y values from “PB1_train.csv” and report the corresponding model parameters (?0, ?1 and ?2).
Test model M on “PB1_test.csv” and report the predicted values (y?) for each row. Calculate the mean-squared-error between the predicted values and original values (third column in “PB1_test.csv”).

Generate a 3-Dimensional plot from the (x,y) values of “PB1_test.csv” and add the best fit plane (regression plane generated by M) to the plot.

Now given a point (46, 53), what is its corresponding predicted y-value?


Deliverables:

[1] Model parameters (? values),	[2] Predicted Values on “PB1_test.csv”,

[4] mean-squared-error on the test set,	[5] y-value for x = [46,53].





[3] Plot,

Task 2)

Regression


This task is similar to Task 3, but with a different dataset.

Similar to the first Dataset, datasets “PB2_train.csv” and “PB2_test.csv” have three columns, first two columns are the features (x=[x1,x2]) and the last column is the prediction value (y). The hypotheses formula is given as:

y = ?0 + ?1x1 + ?2x2

Train a linear regression model, M, over x and y values from “PB2_train.csv” and report the corresponding model parameters (?0, ?1 and ?2).

Test model M on “PB2_test.csv” and report the predicted values (y?) for each row. Calculate the mean-squared-error between the predicted values and original values (third column in “PB2_test.csv”).

Generate a 3-Dimensional plot from the (x,y) values of “PB2_test.csv” and add the best fit plane (regression plane generated by M) to the plot.

Now given a point (19, 76), what is its corresponding y-value?

Deliverables:
[1] Model parameters (? values),	[2] Predicted Values (y?) on “PB2_test.csv”,
 [3] Plot.
[4] mean-squared-error on the test set,	[5] y-value for x = [19,76].
Task 3)

Classification

In this classification problem, you are required to train a Decision-tree model that predicts whether a person is male (represented as 0) or female (represented as 1), given three features: height (in centi-meters), age and weight (in kilograms).

Use “PB3_train.csv” and “PB3_test.csv” for this task, where the first three columns represent three features (height, age, weight), and the fourth column represent class label (0/1). Train a decision tree DT (use Gini-index metric) on “PB3_train.csv” data that learns to map the mentioned features to their corresponding class values.

Report the predicted values (y?) and accuracy percentage (percentage of matches) of the model DT by testing it on “PB3_test.csv” data.

[1] Accuracy (in percentage) ,[2] Predicted Values (y?) on “PB3_test.csv”.


Task 4)	[5 marks]

Classification

The task is similar to Task 3, but with a different dataset.

Use “PB4_train.csv” and “PB4_test.csv” for this task, where the first three columns represent three features (height, age, weight), and the fourth column represent class label (0/1). Train a decision tree DT (use Gini-index metric) on “PB4_train.csv” data that learns to map the mentioned features to their corresponding class values.

Report the predicted values (y?) and accuracy percentage (percentage of matches) of the model DT by testing it on “PB4_test.csv” data.

[1] Accuracy (in percentage),[2] Predicted Values (y?) on “PB4_test.csv”.
